.TH EVOLVOTRON_MUTATE 1 "16 Oct 2009" "www.timday.com" "Evolvotron"

.SH NAME
evolvotron_mutate \- Render an evolvotron function tree to an image.

.SH SYNOPSIS

evolvotron_mutate
< function_in.xml
> function_out.xml

evolvotron_mutate
\-g
> function_out.xml

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B evolvotron_mutate 
either mutates an existing image function read from standard input, 
or (with the \-g option) creates a new image function.
In either case the output image function is written to standard output.

The mutation parameters and function weightings are the same as used
by
.B evolvotron
in its default reset state.

See the evolvotron user manual (accessible from the evolvotron
application's Help menu) for more information on image functions.

.SH COMMANDLINE OPTIONS

.TP 0.5i
.B \-g, \-\-genesis
Specifies that no function should be read from standard input.
The output function is created at random.

.TP 0.5i
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display information on command line arguments and exit.

.TP 0.5i
.B \-l, \-\-linear
Created functions (if they are rendered as animations) will sweep z linearly (rather than sinusoidally).

.TP 0.5i
.B \-p, \-\-spheremap
Created functions will be tagged as spheremaps.

.TP 0.5i
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enables some additional logging to standard error.

.SH EXAMPLES

evolvotron_mutate \-g | tee function0.xml | evolvotron_render function0.ppm 

evolvtron_mutate < function0.xml > function1.xml 

.SH AUTHOR
.B evolvotron_mutate
was written by Tim Day (www.timday.com) and is released
under the conditions of the GNU General Public License.
See the file LICENSE supplied with the source code for details.

.SH SEE ALSO

evolvotron(1), evolvotron_render(1)
